Number::Format - Convert numbers to strings with pretty formatting


WHAT IS IT

Number::Format is a library for formatting numbers.  Functions are
provided for converting numbers to strings in a variety of ways, and
to convert strings that contain numbers back into numeric form.  The
output formats may include thousands separators - characters inserted
between each group of three characters counting right to left from the
decimal point.  The characters used for the decimal point and the
thousands separator come from the locale information or can be
specified by the user.

Also of note is the format_picture command which converts a number
into a string using a "picture" string that you provide.  This is
similar to the PRINT USING statement that some versions of BASIC have.

In addition, functions exist to generate strings for numbers
containing currency (e.g. "USD 9.99", "DEM 20.00", etc.) or for
rounding large values of bytes to the nearest giga/mega/kilo
(e.g. "1.5M", "640K", etc.).


ALSO AVAILABLE

If you enjoy this module check out the following related projects:

  - Template Toolkit users: Use Template::Plugin::Number::Format
    (contributed by Darren Chamberlain) from your templates.
  - JavaScript users: we also have a JavaScript translation of the
    Number::Format done by Cees Hek.  Find that on Github here:
    http://number-format.cvs.sourceforge.net/


HOW TO GET

Download it from your favorite CPAN mirror, or from the Sourceforge
project:
    https://github.com/billward/number-format-perl/

If you are interested in being a developer for this project, or for
more information, please contact William R. Ward, SwPrAwM@cpan.org
(remove "SPAM" before sending email, leaving only my initials).
    

BUILDING/INSTALLING

Perl version 5.8 or higher is required, though it may work on older
versions if you edit the 'require 5.008' line.  This package is set up
to configure and build like a typical Perl extension.  To build:

        perl Makefile.PL
        make
	make test
        make install

NOTE: This installs the files in your core Perl module area, typically
/usr/local/lib/perl on Unix/Linux and C:\PERL\LIB on Windows, so you
may need super-user (root/administrator) access to install.  If you
wish to install in a private area, such as your home directory,
specify that as "perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/path/to/private/area" and it
will be installed there instead.


PROBLEMS/BUG REPORTS

Please submit your issues via the CPAN RT bug tracker or on github
    http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/Bugs.html?Dist=Number-Format
    https://github.com/billward/number-format-perl/

Please check for existing reports on your issue in both places
before filing a new bug.


CREDITS AND LICENSES

This package is copyright 1997-2015 by William R. Ward et al., and may
be distributed under the same terms as cover Perl itself (your choice
of Artistic or GPL).  See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more
information.


CHANGES

See the file "CHANGES" for a description of the changes with each
version of Number::Format or browse history in git.
